translating---geekpi

The Biggest Problems With UC Browser
======
Before we even begin talking about the cons, I want to establish the fact that
I have been a devoted UC Browser user for the past 3 years. I really love the
download speeds I get, the ultra-sleek user interface and eye-catching icons
used for tools. I was a Chrome for Android user in the beginning but I
migrated to UC on a friend's recommendation. But in the past 1 year or so,  I
have seen some changes that have made me rethink about my choice and now I
feel like migrating back to chrome again.

### The Unwanted **Notifications**

I am sure I am not the only one who gets these unwanted notifications every
few hours. These clickbait articles are a real pain and the worst part is that
you get them every few hours.

[![uc browser's annoying ads notifications][1]][1]

I tried closing them down from the notification settings but they still kept
appearing with a less frequency.

### The **News Homepage**

Another unwanted section that is completely useless. We completely understand
that UC browser is free to download and it may require funding but this is not
the way to do it. The homepage features news articles that are extremely
distracting and unwanted. Sometimes when you are in a professional or family
environment some of these click baits might even cause awkwardness.

[![uc browser's embarrassing news homepage][2]][2]

And they even have a setting for that. To Turn the **UC** **News Display ON /
OFF.** And guess what, I tried that too **.** In the image below, You can see
my efforts on the left-hand side and the output on the right-hand side.[![uc
browser homepage settings][3]][3]

And click bait news isn't enough, they have started adding some unnecessary
features. So let's include them as well.

### UC **Music**

UC browser integrated a **music player** in their browser to play music. It 's
just something that works, nothing too fancy. So why even have it? What's the
point? Who needs a music player in their browsers?

[![uc browser adds uc music player][4]][4]

It's not even like it will play audio from the web directly via that player in
the background. Instead, it is a music player that plays offline music. So why
have it? I mean it is not even good enough to be used as a primary music
player. Even if it was, it doesn't run independently of UC Browser. So why
would someone have his/her browser running just to use your Music Player?

### The **Quick** Access Bar

I have seen 9 out of 10 average users have this bar hanging around in their
notification area because it comes default with the installation and they
don't know how to get rid of it. The settings on the right get the job done.

[![uc browser annoying quick access bar][5]][5]

But I still wanna ask, "Why does it come by default ?". It's a headache for
most users. If we want it we will enable it. Why forcing the users though.

### Conclusion

UC browser is still one of the top players in the game. It provides one of the
best experiences, however, I am not sure what UC is trying to prove by packing
more and more unwanted features in their browser and forcing the user to use
them.

I have loved UC for its speed and design. But recent experiences have led to
me having a second thought about my primary browser.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

via: https://www.theitstuff.com/biggest-problems-uc-browser

作者：[Rishabh Kandari][a]
译者：[译者ID](https://github.com/译者ID)
校对：[校对者ID](https://github.com/校对者ID)

本文由 [LCTT](https://github.com/LCTT/TranslateProject) 原创编译，[Linux中国](https://linux.cn/) 荣誉推出

[a]:https://www.theitstuff.com/author/reevkandari
[1]:http://www.theitstuff.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Untitled-design-6.png
[2]:http://www.theitstuff.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Untitled-design-1-1.png
[3]:http://www.theitstuff.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/uceffort.png
[4]:http://www.theitstuff.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Untitled-design-3-1.png
[5]:http://www.theitstuff.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Untitled-design-4-1.png

