10 Best LaTeX Editors For Linux
======
**Brief: Once you get over the learning curve, there is nothing like LaTex.
Here are the best LaTex editors for Linux and other systems.**

## What is LaTeX?

[LaTeX][1] is a document preparation system. Unlike plain text editor, you
can't just write a plain text using LaTeX editors. Here, you will have to
utilize LaTeX commands in order to manage the content of the document.

![LaTex Sample][2]![LaTex Sample][3]

LaTex Editors are generally used to publish scientific research documents or
books for academic purposes. Most importantly, LaText editors come handy while
dealing with a document containing complex Mathematical notations. Surely,
LaTeX editors are fun to use. But, not that useful unless you have specific
needs for a document.

## Why should you use LaTex?

Well, just like I previously mentioned, LaTeX editors are meant for specific
purposes. You do not need to be a geek head in order to figure out the way to
use LaTeX editors but it is not a productive solution for users who deal with
basic text editors.

If you are looking to craft a document but you are not interested in spending
time formatting the text, then LaTeX editors should be the one you should go
for. With LaTeX editors, you just have to specify the type of document, and
the text font and sizes will be taken care of accordingly. No wonder it is
considered one of the [best open source tools for writers][4].

Do note that it isn't something automated, you will have to first learn LaTeX
commands to let the editor handle the text formatting with precision.

## 10 Of The Best LaTeX Editors For Linux

Just for information, the list is not in any specific order. Editor at number
three is not better than the editor at number seven.

### 1\. Lyx

![][2]

![][5]

Lyx is an open source LaTeX Editor. In other words, it is one of the best
document processors available on the web.LyX helps you focus on the structure
of the write-up, just as every LaTeX editor should and lets you forget about
the word formatting. LyX would manage whatsoever depending on the type of
document specified. You get to control a lot of stuff while you have it
installed. The margins, headers/footers, spacing/indents, tables, and so on.

If you are into crafting scientific documents, research thesis, or similar,
you will be delighted to experience Lyx's formula editor which should be a
charm to use. LyX also includes a set of tutorials to get started without much
of a hassle.

[Lyx][6]

### 2\. Texmaker

![][2]

![][7]

Texmaker is considered to be one of the best LaTeX editors for GNOME desktop
environment. It presents a great user interface which results in a good user
experience. It is also crowned to be one among the most useful LaTeX editor
there is.If you perform PDF conversions often, you will find TeXmaker to be
relatively faster than other LaTeX editors. You can take a look at a preview
of what the final document would look like while you write. Also, one could
observe the symbols being easy to reach when needed.

Texmaker also offers an extensive support for hotkeys configuration. Why not
give it a try?

[Texmaker][8]

### 3\. TeXstudio

![][2]

![][9]

If you want a LaTeX editor which offers you a decent level of customizability
along with an easy-to-use interface, then TeXstudio would be the perfect one
to have installed. The UI is surely very simple but not clumsy. TeXstudio lets
you highlight syntax, comes with an integrated viewer, lets you check the
references and also bundles some other assistant tools.

It also supports some cool features like auto-completion, link overlay,
bookmarks, multi-cursors, and so on - which makes writing a LaTeX document
easier than ever before.

TeXstudio is actively maintained, which makes it a compelling choice for both
novice users and advanced writers.

[TeXstudio][10]

### 4\. Gummi

![][2]

![][11]

Gummi is a very simple LaTeX editor based on the GTK+ toolkit. Well, you may
not find a lot of fancy options here but if you are just starting out - Gummi
will be our recommendation.It supports exporting the documents to PDF format,
lets you highlight syntax, and helps you with some basic error checking
functionalities. Though Gummi isn't actively maintained via GitHub it works
just fine.

[Gummi][12]

### 5\. TeXpen

![][2]

![][13]

TeXpen is yet another simplified tool to go with. You get the auto-completion
functionality with this LaTeX editor. However, you may not find the user
interface impressive. If you do not mind the UI, but want a super easy LaTeX
editor, TeXpen could fulfill that wish for you.Also, TeXpen lets you
correct/improve the English grammar and expressions used in the document.

[TeXpen][14]

### 6\. ShareLaTeX

![][2]

![][15]

ShareLaTeX is an online LaTeX editor. If you want someone (or a group of
people) to collaborate on documents you are working on, this is what you need.

It offers a free plan along with several paid packages. Even the students of
Harvard University & Oxford University utilize this for their projects. With
the free plan, you get the ability to add one collaborator.

The paid packages let you sync the documents on GitHub and Dropbox along with
the ability to record the full document history. You can choose to have
multiple collaborators as per your plan. For students, there's a separate
pricing plan available.

[ShareLaTeX][16]

### 7\. Overleaf

![][2]

![][17]

Overleaf is yet another online LaTeX editor. Similar to ShareLaTeX, it offers
separate pricing plans for professionals and students. It also includes a free
plan where you can sync with GitHub, check your revision history, and add
multiple collaborators.

There's a limit on the number of files you can create per project - so it
could bother if you are a professional working with LaTeX documents most of
the time.

[Overleaf][18]

### 8\. Authorea

![][2]

![][19]

Authorea is a wonderful online LaTeX editor. However, it is not the best out
there - when considering the pricing plans. For free, it offers just 100 MB of
data upload limit and 1 private document at a time. The paid plans offer you
more perks but it may not be the cheapest from the lot.The only reason you
should choose Authorea is the user interface. If you love to work with a tool
offering an impressive user interface, there's no looking back.

[Authorea][20]

### 9\. Papeeria

![][2]

![][21]

Papeeria is the cheapest LaTeX editor you can find on the Internet -
considering it is as reliable as the others. You do not get private projects
if you want to utilize it for free. But, if you prefer public projects it lets
you work on an unlimited number of projects with numerous collaborators. It
features a pretty simple plot builder and includes Git sync for no additional
cost.If you opt for the paid plan, it will empower you with the ability to
work on 10 private projects.

[Papeeria][22]

### 10\. Kile

![Kile LaTeX editor][2]

![Kile LaTeX editor][23]

Last entry in our list of best LaTeX editor is Kile. Some people swear by
Kile. Primarily because of the features it provides.

Kile is more than just an editor. It is an IDE tool like Eclipse that provides
a complete environment to work on documents and projects. Apart from quick
compilation and preview, you get features like auto-completion of commands,
insert citations, organize document in chapters etc. You really have to use
Kile to realize its true potential.

Kile is available for Linux and Windows.

[Kile][24]

### Wrapping Up

So, there go our recommendations for the LaTeX editors you should utilize on
Ubuntu/Linux.

There are chances that we might have missed some interesting LaTeX editors
available for Linux. If you happen to know about any, let us know down in the
comments below.





--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

via: https://itsfoss.com/latex-editors-linux/

作者：[Ankush Das][a]
译者：[翻译者ID](https://github.com/翻译者ID)
校对：[校对者ID](https://github.com/校对者ID)

本文由 [LCTT](https://github.com/LCTT/TranslateProject) 原创编译，[Linux中国](https://linux.cn/) 荣誉推出

[a]:https://itsfoss.com/author/ankush/
[1]:https://www.latex-project.org/
[2]:data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODdhAQABAPAAAP///wAAACwAAAAAAQABAEACAkQBADs=
[3]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/latex-sample-example.jpeg
[4]:https://itsfoss.com/open-source-tools-writers/
[5]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/lyx_latex_editor.jpg
[6]:https://www.lyx.org/
[7]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/texmaker_latex_editor.jpg
[8]:http://www.xm1math.net/texmaker/
[9]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/tex_studio_latex_editor.jpg
[10]:https://www.texstudio.org/
[11]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/gummi_latex_editor.jpg
[12]:https://github.com/alexandervdm/gummi
[13]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/texpen_latex_editor.jpg
[14]:https://sourceforge.net/projects/texpen/
[15]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/sharelatex.jpg
[16]:https://www.sharelatex.com/
[17]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/overleaf.jpg
[18]:https://www.overleaf.com/
[19]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/authorea.jpg
[20]:https://www.authorea.com/
[21]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/papeeria_latex_editor.jpg
[22]:https://www.papeeria.com/
[23]:https://itsfoss.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/kile-latex-800x621.png
[24]:https://kile.sourceforge.io/
