[#]: subject: "How do Nix builds work?"
[#]: via: "https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/03/03/how-do-nix-builds-work-/"
[#]: author: "Julia Evans https://jvns.ca/"
[#]: collector: "lkxed"
[#]: translator: " "
[#]: reviewer: " "
[#]: publisher: " "
[#]: url: " "

How do Nix builds work?
======

Hello! For some reason after the last [nix post][1] I got nerdsniped by trying to understand how Nix builds work under the hood, so here’s a quick exploration I did today. There are probably some mistakes in here.

I started by [complaining on Mastodon][2]:

> are there any guides to nix that start from the bottom up (for example
> starting with [this bash script][3]
> and then working up the layers of abstraction) instead of from the top down?
>
> all of the guides I’ve seen start by describing the nix programming language
> or other abstractions, and I’d love to see a guide that starts with concepts I
> already understand like compiler flags, linker flags, Makefiles, environment
> variables, and bash scripts.

Ross Light wrote a great blog post in response called [Connecting Bash to Nix][4], that shows how to compile a basic C program without using most of Nix’s standard machinery.

I wanted to take this a tiny bit further and compile a slightly more
complicated C program.

#### the goal: compile a C program, without using Nix’s standard machinery

Our goal is to compile a C program called `paperjam`. This is a real C program that wasn’t in the Nix repository already. I already figured out how to
compile it in [this post][1] by copying and pasting a bunch of stuff I didn’t understand, but this time I wanted to do it in a more principled way where I actually understand more of the steps.

We’re going to avoid using most of Nix’s helpers for compiling C programs.

The plan is to start with an almost empty build script, and then resolve errors until we have a working build.

#### first: what’s a derivation?

I said that we weren’t going to talk about too many Nix abstractions (and we won’t!), but understanding what a derivation is really helped me.

Everything I read about Nix talks about derivations all the time, but I was really struggling to figure out what a derivation _is_. It turns out that `derivation` is a function in the Nix language. But not just any function! The whole point of the Nix language seems to be to to call this function. The [official documentation for the `derivation` function][5] is actually extremely clear. Here’s what I took away:

`derivation` takes a bunch of keys and values as input. There are 3 required keys:

- `system`: the system, for example `x86_64-darwin`
- `name`: the name of the package you’re building
- `builder`: a program (usually a bash script) that runs the build

Every other key is an arbitrary string that gets passed as an environment variable to the `builder` shell script.

#### derivations automatically build all their inputs

A derivation doesn’t just call a shell script though! Let’s say I reference another derivation called `pkgs.qpdf` in my script.

Nix will:

- automatically build the `qpdf` package
- put the resulting output directory somewhere like `/nix/store/4garxzr1rpdfahf374i9p9fbxnx56519-qpdf-11.1.0`
- expand `pkgs.qpdf` into that output directory (as a string), so that I can reference it in my build script

The derivation function does some other things (described in the [documentation][5]), but “it builds all of its inputs” is all we really need to know
for now.

#### step 1: write a derivation file

Let’s write a very simple build script and call the `derivation` function. These don’t work yet, but I found it pretty fun to go through all the errors, fix them one at a time, and learn a little more about how Nix works by fixing them.

Here’s the build script (`build_paperjam.sh`). This just unpacks the tarball and runs `make install`.

```
#!/bin/bash

tar -xf "$SOURCE"
cd paperjam-1.2 
make install
```

And here’s the Nix code calling the `derivation` function (in `paperjam.nix`). This calls the core `derivation` function, without too much magic.

```
let pkgs = import (fetchTarball "https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/archive/4d2b37a84fad1091b9de401eb450aae66f1a741e.tar.gz") {};

builtins.derivation {
  name = "paperjam-fake";
  builder = ./build-paperjam.sh;
  system = builtins.currentSystem;

  SOURCE = pkgs.fetchurl {
    url = "https://mj.ucw.cz/download/linux/paperjam-1.2.tar.gz";
    hash = "sha256-0AziT7ROICTEPKaA4Ub1B8NtIfLmxRXriW7coRxDpQ0";
  };
}
```

The main things here are:

- `fetchurl` (which downloads an url and puts the path in to the `SOURCE` environment variable)
- `pkgs` (which lets us depend on other Nix packages from the central repository). I don’t totally understand this but I’m already in a pretty deep rabbit hole so we’re going to leave that for now.

`SOURCE` evaluates to a string – it’s the path to the downloaded source tarball.

#### problem 1: tar: command not found

Nix needs you to declare all the dependencies for your builds. It forces this by removing your `PATH` environment variable so that you have no binaries in your PATH at all.

This is pretty easy to fix: we just need to edit our `PATH`.

I added this to `paperjam.nix` to get `tar`, `gzip`, and `make`:

```
PATH = "${pkgs.gzip}/bin:${pkgs.gnutar}/bin:${pkgs.gnumake}/bin";
```

#### problem 2: we need a compiler

Next, we had this error:

```
g++ -O2 -Wall -Wextra -Wno-parentheses -std=gnu++11 -g -DVERSION='"1.2"' -DYEAR='"2022"' -DBUILD_DATE='""' -DBUILD_COMMIT='""'   -c -o paperjam.o paperjam.cc
make: g++: No such file or directory
```

So we need to put a compiler in our PATH. For some reason I felt like using `clang++` to compile, not `g++`. To do that I need to make 2 changes to `paperjam.nix`:

- Add the line `CXX="clang++";`
- Add `${pkgs.clang}/bin` to my `PATH`

#### problem 3: missing header files

The next error was:

```
> ./pdf-tools.h:13:10: fatal error: 'qpdf/QPDF.hh' file not found
 > #include <qpdf/QPDF.hh>
```

Makes sense: everything is isolated, so it can’t access my system header files. Figuring out how to handle this was a little more confusing though.

It turns out that the way Nix handles header files is that it has a shell script wrapper around `clang`. So when you run `clang++`, you’re actually
running a shell script.

On my system, the `clang++` wrapper script was at `/nix/store/d929v59l9a3iakvjccqpfqckqa0vflyc-clang-wrapper-11.1.0/bin/clang++`. I searched that file for `LDFLAGS` and found that it uses 2 environment variables:

- `NIX_LDFLAGS_aarch64_apple_darwin`
- `NIX_CFLAGS_COMPILE_aarch64_apple_darwin`

So I figured I needed to put all the arguments to clang in the `NIX_CFLAGS` variable and all the linker arguments in `NIX_LDFLAGS`. Great! Let’s do that.

I added these 2 lines to my `paperjam.nix`, to link the `libpaper` and `qpdf` libraries:

```
NIX_LDFLAGS_aarch64_apple_darwin = "-L ${pkgs.qpdf}/lib   -L ${pkgs.libpaper}/lib";
NIX_CFLAGS_COMPILE_aarch64_apple_darwin = "-isystem ${pkgs.qpdf}/include   -isystem ${pkgs.libpaper}/include";
```

And that worked!

#### problem 4: missing c++abi

The next error was:

```
> ld: library not found for -lc++abi
```

Not sure what this means, but I searched for “abi” in the Nix packages and fixed it by adding `-L ${pkgs.libcxxabi}/lib` to my `NIX_LDFLAGS` environment variable.

#### problem 5: missing iconv

Here’s the next error:

```
> Undefined symbols for architecture arm64:
>   "_iconv", referenced from: ...
```

I started by adding `-L ${pkgs.libiconv}/lib` to my `NIX_LDFLAGS` environment variable, but that didn’t fix it. Then I spent a while going around in circles and being confused.

I eventually figured out how to fix this by taking a working version of the `paperjam` build that I’d made before and editing my `clang++` wrapper file to print out all of its environment variables. The `LDFLAGS` environment variable in the working version was different from mine: it had `-liconv` in it.

So I added `-liconv` to `NIX_LDFLAGS` as well and that fixed it.

#### why doesn’t the original Makefile have -liconv?

I was a bit puzzled by this `-liconv` thing though: the original Makefile links in `libqpdf` and `libpaper` by passing `-lqpdf -lpaper`. So why doesn’t it link in iconv, if it requires the iconv library?

I think the reason for this is that the original Makefile assumed that you were running on Linux and using glibc, and glibc includes these iconv functions by default. But I guess Mac OS libc doesn’t include iconv, so we need to explicitly set the linker flag `-liconv` to add the iconv library.

#### problem 6: missing codesign_allocate

Time for the next error:

```
libc++abi: terminating with uncaught exception of type std::runtime_error: Failed to spawn codesign_allocate: No such file or directory
```

I guess this is some kind of Mac code signing thing. I used `find /nix/store -name codesign_allocate` to find `codesign_allocate` on my system. It’s at `/nix/store/a17dwfwqj5ry734zfv3k1f5n37s4wxns-cctools-binutils-darwin-973.0.1/bin/codesign_allocate`.

But this doesn’t tell us what the package is called – we need to be able to refer to it as `${pkgs.XXXXXXX}` and `${pkgs.cctools-binutils-darwin}` doesn’t work.

I couldn’t figure out a way go from a Nix folder to the name of the package, but I ended up poking around and finding out that it was called `pkgs.darwin.cctools`.

So I added `${pkgs.darwin.cctools}/bin` to the `PATH`.

#### problem 7: missing a2x

Easy, just add `${pkgs.asciidoc}/bin` to the `PATH`.

##### problem 8: missing install

```
make: install: No such file or directory
```

Apparently `install` is a program? This turns out to be in `coreutils`, so we add `${pkgs.coreutils}/bin` to the `PATH`. Adding `coreutils` also fixes some other warnings I was seeing about missing commands like `date`.

#### problem 9: can’t create /usr/local/bin/paperjam

This took me a little while to figure out because I’m not very familiar with make. The Makefile has a `PREFIX` of `/usr/local`, but we want it to be the program’s output directory in `/nix/store/`

I edited the `build-paperjam.sh` shell script to say:

```
make install PREFIX="$out"
```

and everything worked! Hooray!

#### our final configuration

Here’s the final `paperjam.nix`. It’s not so different from what we started with – we just added 4 environment variables.

```
let pkgs = import (fetchTarball "https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/archive/ae8bdd2de4c23b239b5a771501641d2ef5e027d0.tar.gz") {};
in

builtins.derivation {
  name = "paperjam-fake";
  builder = ./build-paperjam.sh;
  system = builtins.currentSystem;

  SOURCE = pkgs.fetchurl {
    url = "https://mj.ucw.cz/download/linux/paperjam-1.2.tar.gz";
    hash = "sha256-0AziT7ROICTEPKaA4Ub1B8NtIfLmxRXriW7coRxDpQ0";
  };

  CXX="clang++";
  PATH = "${pkgs.gzip}/bin:${pkgs.gnutar}/bin:${pkgs.gnumake}/bin:${pkgs.clang}/bin:${pkgs.darwin.cctools}/bin:${pkgs.asciidoc}/bin:${pkgs.coreutils}/bin:${pkgs.bash}/bin";
  NIX_LDFLAGS_aarch64_apple_darwin = "-L ${pkgs.qpdf}/lib   -L ${pkgs.libpaper}/lib -L ${pkgs.libcxxabi}/lib -liconv -L ${pkgs.libiconv}/lib ";
  NIX_CFLAGS_COMPILE_aarch64_apple_darwin = "-isystem ${pkgs.qpdf}/include   -isystem ${pkgs.libpaper}/include";
}
```

And here’s the final `build-paperjam.sh` build script. Here we just needed to edit the `make install` line to set the `PREFIX`.

```
#!/bin/bash

tar -xf "$SOURCE"
cd paperjam-1.2
make install PREFIX="$out"
```

#### let’s look at our compiled derivation!

Now that we understand this configuration a little better, let’s talk about what `nix-build` is doing a little more.

Behind the scenes, `nix-build paperjam.nix` actually runs `nix-instantiate` and `nix-store --realize`:

```
$ nix-instantiate paperjam.nix
/nix/store/xp8kibpll55s0bm40wlpip51y7wnpfs0-paperjam-fake.drv
$ nix-store --realize /nix/store/xp8kibpll55s0bm40wlpip51y7wnpfs0-paperjam-fake.drv
```

I think what this means is that `paperjam.nix` get compiled to some intermediate representation (also called a derivation?), and then the Nix runtime takes over and is in charge of actually running the build scripts. We can look at this `.drv` intermediate representation with `nix show-derivation`

```
{
  "/nix/store/xp8kibpll55s0bm40wlpip51y7wnpfs0-paperjam-fake.drv": {
    "outputs": { "out": { "path": "/nix/store/bcnyqizvcysqc1vy382wfx015mmwn3bd-paperjam-fake" }
    },
    "inputSrcs": [ "/nix/store/pbjj91f0qr8g14k58m744wdl9yvr2f5k-build-paperjam.sh" ],
    "inputDrvs": {
      "/nix/store/38sikqcggyishxbgi2xnyrdsnq928gqx-asciidoc-10.2.0.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/3llc749f9pn0amlb9vgwsi22hin7kmz4-libcxxabi-11.1.0.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/a8ny8lrbpyn15wdxk3v89f4bdr08a38a-libpaper-1.1.28.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/d888pj9lll12s5qx11v850g1vd4h3vxq-cctools-port-973.0.1.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/gkpdv7xl39x9yxch0wjarq19mmv7j1pm-bash-5.2-p15.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/hwx16m7hmkp2rcik8h67nnyjp52zj849-gnutar-1.34.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/kqqwffajj24fmagxqps3bjcbrglbdryg-gzip-1.12.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/lnrxa45bza18dk8qgqjayqb65ilfvq2n-qpdf-11.2.0.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/rx7a5401h44dqsasl5g80fl25jqqih8r-gnumake-4.4.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/sx8blaza5822y51abdp3353xkdcbkpkb-coreutils-9.1.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/v3b7r7a8ipbyg9wifcqisf5vpy0c66cs-clang-wrapper-11.1.0.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/wglagz34w1jnhr4xrfdk0g2jghbk104z-paperjam-1.2.tar.gz.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/y9mb7lgqiy38fbi53m5564bx8pl1arkj-libiconv-50.drv": [ "out" ]
    },
    "system": "aarch64-darwin",
    "builder": "/nix/store/pbjj91f0qr8g14k58m744wdl9yvr2f5k-build-paperjam.sh",
    "args": [],
    "env": {
      "CXX": "clang++",
      "NIX_CFLAGS_COMPILE_aarch64_apple_darwin": "-isystem /nix/store/h25d99pd3zln95viaybdfynfq82r2dqy-qpdf-11.2.0/include   -isystem /nix/store/agxp1hx267qk1x79dl4jk1l5cg79izv1-libpaper-1.1.28/include",
      "NIX_LDFLAGS_aarch64_apple_darwin": "-L /nix/store/h25d99pd3zln95viaybdfynfq82r2dqy-qpdf-11.2.0/lib   -L /nix/store/agxp1hx267qk1x79dl4jk1l5cg79izv1-libpaper-1.1.28/lib -L /nix/store/awkb9g93ci2qy8yg5jl0zxw46f3xnvgv-libcxxabi-11.1.0/lib -liconv -L /nix/store/nmphpbjn8hhq7brwi9bw41m7l05i636h-libiconv-50/lib ",
      "PATH": "/nix/store/90cqrp3nxbcihkx4vswj5wh85x5klaga-gzip-1.12/bin:/nix/store/siv9312sgiqwsjrdvj8lx0mr3dsj3nf5-gnutar-1.34/bin:/nix/store/yy3fdgrshcblwx0cfp76nmmi24szw89q-gnumake-4.4/bin:/nix/store/cqag9fv2gia03nzcsaygan8fw1ggdf4g-clang-wrapper-11.1.0/bin:/nix/store/f16id36r9xxi50mgra55p7cf7ra0x96k-cctools-port-973.0.1/bin:/nix/store/x873pgpwqxkmyn35jvvfj48ccqav7fip-asciidoc-10.2.0/bin:/nix/store/vhivi799z583h2kf1b8lrr72h4h3vfcx-coreutils-9.1/bin:/nix/store/0q1jfjlwr4vig9cz7lnb5il9rg0y1n84-bash-5.2-p15/bin",
      "SOURCE": "/nix/store/6d2fcw88d9by4fz5xa9gdpbln73dlhdk-paperjam-1.2.tar.gz",
      "builder": "/nix/store/pbjj91f0qr8g14k58m744wdl9yvr2f5k-build-paperjam.sh",
      "name": "paperjam-fake",
      "out": "/nix/store/bcnyqizvcysqc1vy382wfx015mmwn3bd-paperjam-fake",
      "system": "aarch64-darwin"
    }
  }
}
```

This feels surprisingly easy to understand – you can see that there are a bunch of environment variables, our bash script, and the paths to our inputs.

#### the compilation helpers we’re not using: stdenv

Normally when you build a package with Nix, you don’t do all of this stuff yourself. Instead, you use a helper called `stdenv`, which seems to have two parts:

- a function called `stdenv.mkDerivation` which takes some arguments and generates a bunch of environment variables (it seems to be [documented here][6])
- a 1600-line bash build script ([setup.sh][7]) that consumes those environment variables. This is like our `build-paperjam.sh`, but much more generalized.

Together, these two tools:

- add `LDFLAGS` automatically for each C library you depend on
- add `CFLAGS` automatically so that you can get your header files
- run `make`
- depend on clang and coreutils and bash and other core utilities so that you don’t need to add them yourself
- set `system` to your current system
- let you easily add custom bash code to run at various phases of your build
- maybe also manage versions somehow? Not sure about this one.

and probably lots more useful things I don’t know about yet

#### let’s look at the derivation for jq

Let’s look at one more compiled derivation, for `jq`. This is quite long but there are some interesting things in here. I wanted to look at this because I wanted to see what a more typical derivation generated by `stdenv.mkDerivation` looked like.

```
$ nix show-derivation /nix/store/q9cw5rp0ibpl6h4i2qaq0vdjn4pyms3p-jq-1.6.drv
{
  "/nix/store/q9cw5rp0ibpl6h4i2qaq0vdjn4pyms3p-jq-1.6.drv": {
    "outputs": {
      "bin": { "path": "/nix/store/vabn35a2m2qmfi9cbym4z50bwq94fdzm-jq-1.6-bin" },
      "dev": { "path": "/nix/store/akda158i8gr0v0w397lwanxns8yrqldy-jq-1.6-dev" },
      "doc": { "path": "/nix/store/6qimafz8q88l90jwrzciwc27zhjwawcl-jq-1.6-doc" },
      "lib": { "path": "/nix/store/3wzlsin34l1cs70ljdy69q9296jnvnas-jq-1.6-lib" },
      "man": { "path": "/nix/store/dl1xf9w928jai5hvm5s9ds35l0m26m0k-jq-1.6-man" },
      "out": { "path": "/nix/store/ivzm5rrr7riwvgy2xcjhss6lz55qylnb-jq-1.6" }
    },
    "inputSrcs": [
      "/nix/store/6xg259477c90a229xwmb53pdfkn6ig3g-default-builder.sh",
      "/nix/store/jd98q1h1rxz5iqd5xs8k8gw9zw941lj6-fix-tests-when-building-without-regex-supports.patch"
    ],
    "inputDrvs": {
      "/nix/store/0lbzkxz56yhn4gv5z0sskzzdlwzkcff8-autoreconf-hook.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/6wh5w7hkarfcx6fxsdclmlx097xsimmg-jq-1.6.tar.gz.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/87a32xgqw85rxr1fx3c5j86y177hr9sr-oniguruma-6.9.8.drv": [ "dev" ],
      "/nix/store/gkpdv7xl39x9yxch0wjarq19mmv7j1pm-bash-5.2-p15.drv": [ "out" ],
      "/nix/store/xn1mjk78ly9wia23yvnsyw35q1mz4jqh-stdenv-darwin.drv": [ "out" ]
    },
    "system": "aarch64-darwin",
    "builder": "/nix/store/0q1jfjlwr4vig9cz7lnb5il9rg0y1n84-bash-5.2-p15/bin/bash",
    "args": [
      "-e",
      "/nix/store/6xg259477c90a229xwmb53pdfkn6ig3g-default-builder.sh"
    ],
    "env": {
      "__darwinAllowLocalNetworking": "",
      "__impureHostDeps": "/bin/sh /usr/lib/libSystem.B.dylib /usr/lib/system/libunc.dylib /dev/zero /dev/random /dev/urandom /bin/sh",
      "__propagatedImpureHostDeps": "",
      "__propagatedSandboxProfile": "",
      "__sandboxProfile": "",
      "__structuredAttrs": "",
      "bin": "/nix/store/vabn35a2m2qmfi9cbym4z50bwq94fdzm-jq-1.6-bin",
      "buildInputs": "/nix/store/xfnl6xqbvnpacx8hw9d99ca4mly9kp0h-oniguruma-6.9.8-dev",
      "builder": "/nix/store/0q1jfjlwr4vig9cz7lnb5il9rg0y1n84-bash-5.2-p15/bin/bash",
      "cmakeFlags": "",
      "configureFlags": "--bindir=${bin}/bin --sbindir=${bin}/bin --datadir=${doc}/share --mandir=${man}/share/man",
      "depsBuildBuild": "",
      "depsBuildBuildPropagated": "",
      "depsBuildTarget": "",
      "depsBuildTargetPropagated": "",
      "depsHostHost": "",
      "depsHostHostPropagated": "",
      "depsTargetTarget": "",
      "depsTargetTargetPropagated": "",
      "dev": "/nix/store/akda158i8gr0v0w397lwanxns8yrqldy-jq-1.6-dev",
      "doCheck": "",
      "doInstallCheck": "1",
      "doc": "/nix/store/6qimafz8q88l90jwrzciwc27zhjwawcl-jq-1.6-doc",
      "installCheckTarget": "check",
      "lib": "/nix/store/3wzlsin34l1cs70ljdy69q9296jnvnas-jq-1.6-lib",
      "man": "/nix/store/dl1xf9w928jai5hvm5s9ds35l0m26m0k-jq-1.6-man",
      "mesonFlags": "",
      "name": "jq-1.6",
      "nativeBuildInputs": "/nix/store/ni9k35b9llfc3hys8nv5qsipw8pfy1ln-autoreconf-hook",
      "out": "/nix/store/ivzm5rrr7riwvgy2xcjhss6lz55qylnb-jq-1.6",
      "outputs": "bin doc man dev lib out",
      "patches": "/nix/store/jd98q1h1rxz5iqd5xs8k8gw9zw941lj6-fix-tests-when-building-without-regex-supports.patch",
      "pname": "jq",
      "postInstallCheck": "$bin/bin/jq --help >/dev/null\n$bin/bin/jq -r '.values[1]' <<< '{\"values\":[\"hello\",\"world\"]}' | grep '^world$' > /dev/null\n",
      "preBuild": "rm -r ./modules/oniguruma\n",
      "preConfigure": "echo \"#!/bin/sh\" > scripts/version\necho \"echo 1.6\" >> scripts/version\npatchShebangs scripts/version\n",
      "propagatedBuildInputs": "",
      "propagatedNativeBuildInputs": "",
      "src": "/nix/store/ggjlgjx2fw29lngbnvwaqr6hiz1qhy8g-jq-1.6.tar.gz",
      "stdenv": "/nix/store/qrz2mnb2gsnzmw2pqax693daxh5hsgap-stdenv-darwin",
      "strictDeps": "",
      "system": "aarch64-darwin",
      "version": "1.6"
    }
  }
}
```

I thought it was interesting that some of the environment variables in here are actually bash scripts themselves – for example the `postInstallCheck` environment variable is a bash script. Those bash script environment variables are `eval`ed in the main bash script (you can [see that happening in setup.sh here][8])

The `postInstallCheck` environment variable in this particular derivation starts like this:

```
$bin/bin/jq --help >/dev/null
$bin/bin/jq -r '.values[1]' <<< '{"values":["hello","world"]}' | grep '^world$' > /dev/null
```

I guess this is a test to make sure that `jq` installed correctly.

#### finally: clean up

All of my compiler experiments used about 3GB of disk space, but `nix-collect-garbage` cleaned up all of it.

#### let’s recap the process!

I feel like I understand Nix a bit better after going through this. I still don’t feel very motivated to learn the Nix language, but now I have some idea of what Nix programs are actually doing under the hood! My understanding is:

- First, `.nix` files get compiled into a `.drv` file, which is mostly a bunch of inputs and outputs and environment variables. This is where the Nix language stops being relevant.
- Then all the environment variables get passed to a build script, which is in charge of doing the actual build
- In the Nix standard environment (`stdenv`), some of those environment variables are themselves bash code, which gets `eval`ed by the big build script `setup.sh`

That’s all! I probably made some mistakes in here, but this was kind of a fun rabbit hole.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

via: https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/03/03/how-do-nix-builds-work-/

作者：[Julia Evans][a]
选题：[lkxed][b]
译者：[译者ID](https://github.com/译者ID)
校对：[校对者ID](https://github.com/校对者ID)

本文由 [LCTT](https://github.com/LCTT/TranslateProject) 原创编译，[Linux中国](https://linux.cn/) 荣誉推出

[a]: https://jvns.ca/
[b]: https://github.com/lkxed/
[1]: https://jvns.ca/blog/2023/02/28/some-notes-on-using-nix/
[2]: https://social.jvns.ca/@b0rk/109954253779465018
[3]: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/pkgs/stdenv/generic/setup.sh
[4]: https://www.zombiezen.com/blog/2023/03/connecting-bash-to-nix/
[5]: https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/language/derivations.html
[6]: https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/stable/#chap-stdenv
[7]: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/fc2bfe1cdc910104e6df52c5dc449e8f855c66b7/pkgs/stdenv/generic/setup.sh
[8]: https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/fc2bfe1cdc910104e6df52c5dc449e8f855c66b7/pkgs/stdenv/generic/setup.sh#L61-L74
